[Music]
So, Muffwiggler, Mike McGrath of the Muffwiggur Forum, the creator, shepherd of all our weird modular fantasies in some way, passed away.
And I think it affected me a little more than I expected at first, but it's a downer.
Yeah, I don't know under what circumstances it passed away. It doesn't really matter, I guess.
Just leave some questions now as to what's going to happen with Muffwiggler, the forum.
I personally don't know. I've looked at Facebook and the threads on Muffwiggler, and I think his sister has taken ownership of it or something like that.
I guess he left it to her in his will, so to speak.
But what that means for the future of the forum, I'm not sure. I just know that there's a lot of people who have been using this as an opportunity to complain about the name and saying it's a good time to change it, and I'm like, how I don't understand why this would be a good time to change it.
Also, make your own forum?
Exactly. It's like, do your own thing. This is Mike's legacy. He named it. I don't think anyone should be fucking with that personally.
But yeah, it was hard to get any real information over the last week, because there was more people debating about whether or not they should be offended by the name than, you know, I guess, paying their respects.
You know what I mean? That was a little frustrating to have to sift through it.
As much as I did sift through it, I saw a lot of people paying their respects, and that was cool.
Yeah.
Like when I joined Muffwigler, that was 2008, my member number is 244. We're up to 46,000 now.
Wow.
Yeah.
You know, like, a lot of people still refer to Muffwigler as like, you know, a tiny little niche, you know, community, but it's definitely gone beyond that.
So over the last few years, like, it's huge, and I think his passing, you know, it's going to leave a, you know, and it's going to have an impact on a lot of people.
No, you know, whether they're just lurking on the forums or not. It's like, you have to acknowledge, you know, his impact on the synth community at large here.
I mean, even just personally, as someone, I think I joined, you know, a little bit after you, Greg, but I've been on there for years.
And I think my post count is like 10. Like, I never got to 100 to be able to sell because I just lurk.
Yeah.
There's no way to describe how good the information I got from there was, even when it was like contentious, or people were arguing, or like it wasn't, it wasn't clear cut.
Just even those debates about these certain things, just sitting and reading those was like, there was no other way for me to get that in a way that would have gotten me from A to where I am now.
It's something that is, it is dense. It is hard to get into. And if that was spread out over, you know, a KVR or any of these other sort of like existing forums and it had been relegated to some sub forum somewhere where there was three people, maybe just sort of bickering with one another.
It wouldn't have been the treasure trove of just incredible information. And, you know, people sort of talking and bouncing back and forth.
You get a sense of like, you know, some of these ideas came from people going, oh, I wish I did this and I wish I did that. And someone kind of like, those are all great ideas.
And now I've just made a module and you can now have it because the manufacturers are, they were other people that were just on this forum and we're listening and engaging in this conversation.
You had fans, you had users and you had manufacturers all in arms length in one another in a way that was, I don't see how you can recreate that in any other sort of way.
And you still do too. You know, a lot of people like to reminisce about the wiggler of old, but I'm like, it's still there. There's still a lot of interesting people. There's still a lot of great minds that are on those forums and are active every day.
It's just that there's a lot more noise now too because we have so many more people there. It's like, that doesn't take away from the positive stuff that's there.
You know what I mean? You just got to kind of sift through the noise ratio a bit more.
There's so much there. Like, if you want to learn about power supply grounding, like there's oceans of actual really good information on that forum if you want to search for it.
I mean, even look at something like mass with like the sort of infamy of maths and it's like, I don't, you know, there's threads that started with, I have no idea why this is popular.
Why would anyone use this? What do I do? And then six pages later, you now have a ton of people going, well, this is how I use it.
Here's a video of this thing that I've done. And the original poster goes, yeah, right, I'm glad I didn't sell this because this is clearly an amazing module.
And like that didn't just turn into, you know, either the path of your stupid, you don't know what you're doing.
Here's my chance to berate someone who doesn't know as much as me or, you know, the sort of like dense white paper that no one can use.
Like this sort of like that perfect like a lot of these threads and all these discussions end up being that sort of like perfect balance of like useful information, people being a smart ass, people being an asshole.
But like at the end, there was this like this like these sort of useful artifacts that even if you're not engaged in the conversation, you can look at it and go.
Yeah, I'm learning, I'm learning a lot just by watching these people argue. Yeah.
I kind of got burned out on forums like, you know, a long time ago, but Wiggler, Muff's, whatever you want to call it, the only forum that I've stuck around this long as a member of and been this active on for this length of time, you know, I mean, so I think that says something for sure.
It has almost like the right amount of toxicity. Like it's not it's not saccharine. It's not sweet. It's not everyone's being very nice, but it's also not like everyone runs away because of it.
It's almost like the like the toxin is a is an accent, a little drop of it.
It's almost like you need it a little, otherwise you might be there a little too much.
We've all had our times of being there quite a bit. I know I have. And now it's more of a still there daily, but it's not like it was.
Yeah, hopefully it continues on. Yeah.
I'm not sure who's paying the bills at this point or where the funds are coming from or who's doing all the administration, but I know that for the overdue bill that happened right before my past.
I know Synth Cube footed the entire bill. So I feel like there's enough of a community that people know the value and they'll support it because like that site should persist.
It's like the hub for a lot of synthesis and electronic music information.
So wait, what else is on our list?
Honeymoon phase over.
Do you still love Zalk?
I do want to say that all the interactions with the Yay cocks.
Zalk zooks.
I don't care if they say it's supposed to be chaos.
Oh, yeah. So all the interactions with the Yalk was stellar. I explained what was going on. They asked me to try a few things. I did and said, "Hey, it's still broke."
And he said, "Cool, ship it." It wasn't fast because it's in Poland. That's not their fault.
And I got it back and I have not had a single problem.
Knock on whatever the fuck this table's made out of.
No matter what we say about how we feel about it, I have to say the interactions with the company and their support and them turning around and giving me one that works. Thumbs up.
So I'm coming on the other end with two thumbs down.
I would never buy another Zalk module no matter how much I like the Zadar because of the way that they treated me throughout that whole situation.
I've updated a bunch of models with my audio interface, many audio interfaces.
They pretty much treated me like a child and said that you need an audio setup that works. You've ruined this. You've taken the wrong approach. It's like, "Dude, it's a UAD Apollo 8 on a MacBook Pro. There's no real variance here. It's a single electric line going to the box.
Never had any issues. Don't have any electrical issues." Not the fucking interface, dude. You have some flaw in your modules. Honestly, the fact that they're update with the weird character, they've made a few little missteps with this update.
Oh yeah, we got the version name wrong on the firmware. We didn't know that this character was wrong.
Well, both of those proved to me that you didn't test your build at fucking all. You got it to work on a module and you said ship it. We're going to move on to the next thing.
And you were not alone in that thread. It was just, it was like all kinds of people were having problems.
To the point where there's now customer service in Pennsylvania that was close that they could ship it to, to deal with what they felt like were the annoying people that amped the levels up too high or did something wrong.
And it's like, "Now, first off, make a list of what you would expect people to do. Tell us what the average decibel level should be. Is it minus 10? Is it plus 4 dBU? What was your actual scenario that they updated it on?"
Which I asked them and they never responded to. So, at that point, like, dude, it's a great module, but treat your users with some level of respect.
I didn't really feel like I got that. I feel like they do kind of some janky software work. And I get it.
You probably found a hardware flaw that you don't want to update. I totally get it. I know what that's like.
It almost feels like there has to be because he immediately kind of ninja released a revision.
Yeah. Yeah. Which was a little suspect. They never said anything about it. I was like, "Oh, guess what? There's a 2019 version. Throw the OV that just bought this a month ago. Guess what? There's a new version that we're not talking about."
And I've seen some other people on Muff's that were like same scenarios. Look, I just kind of got stuck in this. I don't know. This thing keeps bailing after it updates multiple packets of data. Why would it stop?
Yeah. Warp off. The levels were right. It was the, you know, eh, help your users out a little more.
I'm glad I waited and watched this unfold online and also between YouTube. It made me realize like I just didn't want to fuck with it. I was like, "I want this update, but I ain't fucking around." So I just sold my Zadar and went and bought another one.
It was already updated from them, you know, and lo and behold, it was a revised module. It wasn't really where existed.
With the correct version, like whatever 1.2 on it. It's like, but updating the other ones bricked it and you admit that, but this new one worked fine with the same process. That's pretty fishy.
So calling you out loved the module, but kind of fucked the way you approached that personally. They didn't even talk about the calibration process that you pretty much need to do in the firmware upgrade procedure until people bitched on the forum and they were like, "Oh, yeah, you're good at calibrating."
That was the final straw for me. I realized that like, I didn't want to fuck around updating and having a potential problem with a module that I was kind of already becoming dependent upon for my shit. And secondly, I saw the calibration and I was like, "Nah, I don't want to mess with all this."
I'm to the point where with updates period, I would rather just send my module to someone to do it. Control mod or Detroit module or someone nearby, have them do it and just ship it back to me.
I can live without it for a few days if I don't have to go through painstaking processes of updating and calibrating every digital module in my rig at this point.
There's just no fucking standard for it. Every module through every manufacturer updates in a different way, even if you're doing the audio interface for Zadar.
Mutable does the same thing, but it's completely different for their shit. It's like everything you have to have a certain procedure or a certain tool or connector like I needed for the Harvest Man stuff.
You needed to pick it to adapter and it had to be a certain version. It's just like, I'm so sick of updating shit. My rainmaker is still on the original firmware, because I don't even want to consider messing with that thing.
You need a VM for that? Well, I do because I have a Mac, so there's a whole step. It's crazy. I almost want to just sell it and buy one that's updated.
It's like less of a hassle. It's like the only one for all this shit. I've had it. It's really good. It's the ER301. You just put a zip file in an SD card and put it on there and he's got a whole process.
It's very foolproof. I've updated it dozens of times now with each release and never an issue.
The audio damage sequencer one was like that. It had an SD card on the back. You pop the module out, took the card out, slapped it in a computer, copied over the new firmware, threw it back in the module, powered it on. It detected it. Done deal.
I'm like, that was great. And then if you want the NIN expander, turns out you've got another firmware update you're up against.
I'm not going to get that. I was hoping I could make my own two HP one because three HP can't really deal with that right now.
And I don't want those fucking buttons either. I don't need buttons for triggering.
The only thing I'm a little worried about too though, and we talked about this in email, is I get the feeling that that's going to be the straw that breaks that camel's back.
It's already got to be pushing that hardware to the limit. And the second one of those NIN inputs that I put in, I just see that thing just freezing up and going up.
And what's scary? They're stuck now because there's no more memory whatsoever. So if they have a fix, you're going to have to cut something or do something creative to try to get that to work.
It does feel complete at least though. The newest firmware, there's nothing I can think of that it needs. It feels solid.
Going back to the original question you asked, the answer is the honeymoon over maybe, but I've settled into a very comfortable marriage with NIN expander.
It's great in the regard that you can easily get out of it what you would expect from a digital envelope.
It's super easy, but once you go beyond that, there's so much more to explore.
It's really awesome. Greg, you posted a video where you're doing sequence stuff with it.
Using it to make our coagiation and stuff.
It was one of those aha moments when I was, all to play was Zadar. What should I do with it?
I was like, send it to the one volt octave and quantizer. I can't even remember that patch. It was basic, but I don't remember what I did.
It was something between Zadar and Scales being triggered in different ways.
I was gating the Zadar once every so often. It was a long gate.
Then I was hitting other gates to the Scales to create the note changes.
It was a weird cycle. Then I had the trigger out of that going to something else.
I can't remember with Zadar. It was a weird loop type of thing, but basically it was a modulated arpeggiation.
It's not something you would typically get with a normal envelope.
It was also on the list.
As I pull out the mini log XD, which we described as for the listeners, this unboxing video.
This is sexy, dude.
I got the bag.
Slither bag.
I got the bag. I didn't come with the bag. I was going to play it at a show. I did not at the last minute.
For the price, I think I got it on sale. It was $6.20 or something like that.
Honestly, Fed synthesizers for a lot of years now. Access virus, all sorts of shit. This thing should cost twice as much.
Very happy it doesn't, of course.
But, for voice, full analog poly. I actually love the fucking analog oscillators on it.
If they made this in a module, I would get it.
The sound of it, very close to the mini log, but there's some richness to it.
That's kind of corny, but it sounds really fucking good.
Didn't expect that. I expected it to sound okay.
You know, like, analog 4. Did you ever have the analog 4 from Electron at all?
That thing was anemic and thin as fuck, which I think they kind of updated that or something.
I blame the filter, but you could bypass the filter pretty much, and it would still sound kind of nasal.
When I looked at that square wave, the square wave is what I hated the most on the analog 4 on a scope.
It was not a square wave.
These ones sound ridiculous. That's part of it. You get two full analog oscillators.
You get sync and ring mod. You get cross mod 2, which is really nice.
Pretty nice feature. Multi-engine, those where it's at.
This is the main differentiator for this in the mini log, just the regular one.
This one also just has a low pass filter, but we'll talk about that.
There are some ways you can get around that.
So multi-engine. At first, it was just oscillators you can upload, but it's actually oscillators.
Modulation effects, reverb effects, delay effects.
All that code you can update and override.
Cool thing. You can find that best place to get all this info is a Reddit thread for the Pro-Log
for this synth because it'll load the same code.
You can get a multi-mode filter effect for it.
You can get high pass, band pass, and all that other shit, which is pretty cool.
When I got the thing I played with it, it just comes with two built-in multi-engine effects.
One of them is VPN. In a few days in, I found I put all the plats code on it.
I bought a $20 oscillator with wave folding on it.
It was getting another synth, basically.
You could just sit there with plats code on it playing plats code in poly.
It's fucking awesome. I actually hated the overdrive on this.
The overdrive is kind of limiting. You get 0%, 50%, 100% overdrive.
That's it. Yeah, exactly. Strange choice.
I thought it sounded like shit on the regular oscillator models.
Then I got the plats going and I was like, "Oh, okay.
No, there's some dirt in here."
So that was really cool. I haven't put any custom effects on, but you look at it
and they don't really clarify this upfront, but it almost looks like you only get one
effect at a time, right? But it's actually not that way.
All this stuff is digital memory kind of.
So you can just go to reverb and turn it on and turn it off.
Go to delay, turn it on, turn it off. You get everything simultaneously, basically.
It sounds really good, too. The effects are very quality.
You just get time and depth. You get two parameters, basically.
The trick of this thing is, and the way, you know, plats obviously doesn't have just one knob,
so you're like, "How do I get to the other parameters?"
Well, you got to go to this edit mode and there's a menu you got to dive in here,
and you can do some things like some of them have internal envelopes to modulate it
because you only get a full ADSR and then an AD and this LFO.
That's fucking it. You got these destinations for it.
This one's hardwired to amp for the full ADSR.
That's your modulation.
Aside from the two CV ends, which is fucking brilliant,
and then you'll get some internal oscillation on some of this.
Anyway, you get a ton of presets on it.
Most of them sound like garbage, of course. Some of them are pretty good.
But I love patching this thing. This is probably one of my favorite synthesizers ever.
I've had it for a while. Like, I could probably get rid of a lot of stuff.
The boil fell is kind of gone away.
One of the main differences is you get this joystick with XY,
and you can either just assign it...
You can CV the XY, or you can CV individual parameters.
You can assign up and down to any parameter you want almost,
but left and right are always going to be pitch bend to a degree.
Pretty interesting choices, but it's nice because this will just be like,
"Oh, octave down real quick when you're playing it."
It's nice to play live if you want to just kind of pitch down a whole sequence or something like that.
Yeah, this sounds great. What are the downsides?
So you notice you get...
I got a question.
Yeah, go ahead.
This? Damper?
That's so rare. It's actually a volume pedal input if you want to damper.
How many fucking synthesizers have a damper pedal?
I've seen people on gear sluts in other forms that are like,
"Oh fuck, I'm a piano player that wants a synth.
I will buy this thing because it has a fucking damper input on it."
Yeah, because that's what I'm used to.
It's like, "Oh, I don't think of things that way."
But one of the things that's kind of annoying is there's no octave switch for the multi right here.
You were only going to tune this thing with your keys basically,
and then everything else has to shift around it.
It's kind of an interesting choice.
I kind of wish they would have put some way to pitch that up and down.
So you kind of got to do that with the keys and then just adjust these to suit.
It's not the biggest deal.
I think I've maybe looked at the manual once or twice.
It's very easy to program.
It's got a nice cord sequencer, just kind of a 101, but mono or cord.
So I've sat there and just made sequences just recording it into here.
And it's pretty straightforward.
It's of course quantized to 16 steps and everything, but I don't know.
I really like the thing. It sounds really good.
Where's the dice and pepper buttons?
There are no dice or pepper buttons in here.
What does it have as far as special features go?
Things it doesn't have that the monologue does is the LFO rate will only go so high.
Whereas one of the things that made the monologue nice was that it would go into really fast audio rates
and you could just treat it as another oscillator.
Does it hit audio at all? Or is it like?
A little bit.
Yeah, I would say it probably goes up to like 2K.
Okay.
Like that.
So it's a lambiting, but it does the trick.
Are these your only targets for these?
Yeah, these are just the ones in the menu.
These are your only targets.
So to be honest, it's another thing.
Like I generally like, they're generally like pointed this way.
This is, I usually have the LFO in shape and the second EG on cutoff.
You can assign these these, you're going to assign to anything, which is awesome.
Oh, that's a lot.
Another nice thing is like, it's not some weird process to put the new oscillators on.
There's a nice librarian program.
You can easily back up all your patches, throw third party code on there without having to like
how to do anything technical.
I think they kind of fucking crushed it in a way.
I really like it.
I think the filter sounds really good.
It's the model log filter, not the mini log one.
It's a little beefier.
It's only like 12 pole low pass.
Really wish they made a desktop version.
Yeah.
The keys are all right.
You know, for like mini shitty keys, I'm not a piano player.
I don't like a digital in this 20-ish look.
Yeah, for sure.
Kind of nice look.
It's burly.
It's got these weird like, I remember the designer even talked about how much he pissed off the
channel engineers by doing this curved face plate.
And they're like, dude, what the fuck are you doing?
He's like, no, I kind of want it this way.
Yeah.
It works for me.
I like it.
It's got the micro tuning that FX twin suggested from the monologue.
Only the mini log and the monologue have that and the innovation base station now that
it has the FX updates.
So you mentioned the analog oscillators.
Yeah.
What is on there for digital?
Is it like, do you get like two and two or something?
Like, so you get this down here, which I forget.
One of these is the variable phase modulation, which is kind of like FM.
Okay.
I had the core prophecy, which I've had since I was like 17 years old, and it had variable
phase modulation.
I feel like they ported some of that or something like that.
There's another one you get on board.
Then you get all these other different types of like, I forget exactly.
But it sounds even if you couldn't upload your own, it would be a fully satisfying and deep
synthesizer.
I think the plaid stuff just takes it to like another fucking dimension.
Yeah.
That's what I'm curious about.
Like if I didn't load anything on there and say I wanted to just disable the analog oscillator.
Oh, yeah.
I've done that for many patches.
Okay.
So what do you, what are you left with then?
Oh, you're left with this multi-oss full poly and everything else.
Okay.
So that's just like one variable oscillator?
Yeah.
So you get a mixer here for all your different like the two VCOs and the multi and it's just
up to you how you want to use the three oscillators.
Usually it will start a patch with the multi-shit.
And then I've often found that when I turn up, oh fuck, it's even better.
Like it's even more of like a sub octave overtone.
That's how I like to patch it honestly.
Sometimes I'll turn it off and just do straight analog, which almost surprises me in a way
because I didn't generally, I'm not going for that.
So if you were doing trying to do sub octave stuff, do you have to do it by ear or as you're
adjusting to these, do you get any sort of feedback as a like, you're off by these semis?
Oh yeah, you do actually.
That's a great point.
When you adjust the tones on the thing, it'll tell you how many cents you're off.
It's just fucking brilliant.
Like the hate tuning things.
Everybody does like for the most part.
That's a nice touch.
Yeah.
Kind of selling me on this thing.
I fully recommend it.
I think it's fucking amazing.
You've sold me on the desktop if they ever make one.
I want to petition them.
I will buy a desktop in addition just to like use it live because I don't really need keys.
You know, none of us really are keyboard players.
So did it come with stickers so you can customize?
No.
Oh yeah.
I will touch on that.
I think I was a little hyped on the model samples last time we were talking.
Yes, sure.
That was a full day until I sold it basically.
Wow.
Yeah.
It just wasn't for me.
Analogrithm is what I mean.
Wasn't that about how long you last with the OP1?
Yeah.
Those are the two shortest things ever for sure.
Didn't like you there.
That had to have been a roller coaster ride of a day though.
No, I'm going to start to finish by the end of the day and like, fuck it, this thing's
gone.
Do you want to get into it?
Do you want to explain like what?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
So there are parts of it I like and that the knobs are there.
Right.
It works right.
And they did add the sample lock in this year.
Not just limited to like what was it for?
Six samples which seemed a little arbitrary.
I don't know man.
It when I'm I'm not going to prepare a bunch of samples and get them like really pristine
and then put them on a drum machine and play them.
I need something where I'm going to design sounds on it.
I need some flexibility.
I need the ability to overdrive.
I need some analog.
I need some digital analog rhythm is just my favorite machine ever.
I'm never going to find anything that comes close really.
I don't want to say I told you so, but that's exactly what I thought.
You did.
And I know it.
I was thinking I'm like, there's no fucking way he's going to like this thing more than
the rhythm.
I was like, there's no way.
But I was I was curious.
I wanted to be surprised.
I was like, I want him to conjure some magic out of this shit and be like, fuck you, this
thing's better than the rhythm.
You have gone completely out of your way to not say I told you so.
But you're saying I told you, me, I've already said that before.
I think right after I was like, fuck this thing, I sold it.
You're like, yeah, I expected that.
I tried it, got it out of my system to a degree.
Because I just know what I like about the rhythm and what I was seeing lacking with there.
And I know you've taken the rhythm even further.
You know what I mean?
Like you've gone beyond with that thing than I ever have.
And I was like, I don't know how that he's going to phase it out for that.
I was hopeful.
I got a two bit prism in my rack.
Oh, yeah.
Talk a little about that.
It's nifty.
What do you.
So what is again?
It's like a kind of filter.
It is a filter, but so much more.
I like it.
It has some weird jazz to it.
I mean, basically it's a little manger, which I didn't really realize when I bought it.
What I wanted was a multi-mode stereo filter with interesting, CVable options that would
pair well with clouds.
Because I'm using clouds a lot and I want to be able to filter things in stereo.
Oh, that game.
And I didn't want a giant expensive filter.
You know what I mean?
And I looked at the price of this thing and I was like, okay, that's definitely reasonable.
How much was it?
Two or three?
Between two and three.
I can't remember.
I think like 250.
Around about somewhere around there.
Yeah.
And the extra stuff with it is really cool.
Like, I don't know exactly what you want to call it, but it's like you can't have just
like the filter.
You know what I mean?
It's like it's all kind of joined together.
It's like a fractal way.
You know what I mean?
Everything intersects there, but it works.
You know, I didn't know if I would like that at first.
It was kind of annoyed that there was so much stuff tied in there, but it works well, especially
with clouds.
It's got the buffer freeze that you can CV.
So you can kind of do like a beat repeat, like up to like two beats type of thing.
Is it all digital?
All digital.
Okay.
Yeah.
And surprisingly, the filter sounds good being a digital filter.
It has like a very vocal like character to it.
Like you can crank the resonance and you'll start to get like vowel formats.
You know what I mean?
It's interesting.
Very cool.
Yeah.
I didn't know what to expect.
So far, I've been pleasantly surprised with everything that I've done with it.
And it seems really well thought out.
Like you can have the filter.
Like I said, you can't really separate all the extra shit from the filter, but you can
change the order of it.
So you can have like the filter kind of be off or you can do low pass, high pass, band
pass before all the other effects or you can switch it to be after all of the effects.
Oh, cool.
That's yeah.
I felt that was like a really nice touch.
And the other effects off the top of my head, it's got like sample and bit rate reduction,
which you can see V. It has a weird knob which functions to the left as like a delay into
the right as a comb filter.
I might be getting that backwards, but either way, it's a delay or a comb filter.
And you can kind of change how that functions as well.
There's a mode you can get into where the CV that would change what filter mode you're
in, you can turn that into a clock input.
And that's directly connected to your delay now.
So you basically have a nice clockable digital delay in there with the other stuff.
So yeah, dig it.
So you were talking about there's this sort of like fractal network, a lot of stuff going
on.
Can you turn things down while you're trying to dial other things in?
I mean, is there a way to sort of like audition certain configurations or is it basically
like real?
You've got this like sort of like Harry ball of stuff going on.
Yeah, I mean, there's only like four things you can really do.
So it's I keep saying like it's a good companion to clouds, but I feel like it's kind of like
that in a way where you have like, you know, your basic functions there of like your modes
of like feedback or reverb, you know what I mean, or then your main mode and things like
that, it's like kind of in that way where like the main mode is the filter and then you
have these other little things you bring in around it and it just creates like its own
thing.
Yeah.
And this might be a little vague to some listeners, but I've been making material that I can
always say kind of harkens back to old and Zen slash gridlock because it's got that crispy
digital sound to it.
And with the bit rate reduction that you can kind of bring in just a bit, you can make
things sound clean yet lo-fi, you know what I mean?
It's like like you know it's digital, you know, your ears can detect that, but it doesn't
sound like shit.
It doesn't sound like like a bad VST or something, you know what I mean?
It sounds like quality digital processing with enough in there to kind of mangle up your
source and get something interesting out of it.
Very IDM friendly for lack of a better term, I guess I would say.
I imagine a lot of our listeners are ants and gridlock fans.
Yeah.
I don't think it's going to be totally foreign to them.
Like would I get this to run my analog base and through?
No, you know what I mean?
Like that I think would disappoint you.
If you're trying to create like weird glitchy IDM beats through it and you need like a stereo
filter post some other like reverb effects that you're running your shit through, it's
excellent for that.
With the little features like the you know the buffer, you know, beat repeat thing like
that's typical IDM shit, you know what I mean?
So I feel like it was definitely designed with that sound in mind and it kind of nails
it for anything else, probably not so much, but that's kind of the mode I'm in right now.
Anyways, so I'm gelling with it really well, especially post clouds.
Now does it like cover some of what you would get from a camera beat repeat at all or is
it like kind of a different beast?
Yeah.
I wouldn't say it's that precise because you're not like clocking it, you know what I mean?
Yeah, I got you.
But I mean it depends on how you're hitting that.
Like if you're hitting it with a sequence, yeah, it would be spot on.
Like the camera all thing, that's definitely more versatile.
You know what I mean?
Like you can do kind of like full on rearrangements of a beat with that.
You're not going to be doing that with this.
But you can get little, you know, stutter steps and glitchy sounds out of it.
I like it.
I guess like over the last three years or so, I've owned a lot of different qubit modules.
Almost all of them I end up disappointed with for one reason or another.
So far this one I haven't found anything to really bitch about or be disappointed in.
It kind of nails it.
It's in a good small package, priced right, feels solid.
The only problem I've had with it so far is I've had it freeze on startup once and I
had to reboot my whole case to get it turned on.
Which I also had the same problem with the Nebula.
So I don't know, maybe they just have some issues with these digital modules and power.
So you're no stranger to having duplicates of things.
Is this something you would see maybe having or getting value out of having two of them?
Yeah, I've already made space.
Like if you look at my case next to it, there's if I moved the first prism all the way to
the right, I can fit another one right next to it and it would fill that gap perfectly.
I do plan on getting a second one.
Just the move and everything right now is kind of tap me out.
I don't have any chance to buy any new toys.
I wasn't even going to buy that but I was like bored and I've been spending all my money
on like responsible shit.
Yeah.
Stupid stuff.
And I was like I need something fun.
So took a little gamble on it and I'm pretty happy with it.
I give it two thumbs up.
The sample drum has been out for not even a month and there's been like five firmware
revisions already.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Is this?
No, is that because there's problems or is it because they're just going nuts making
cool new stuff?
It's a mixture of both.
That's why I don't own one.
Because like I was mentioning before I'm just fucking tired of updating shit and I know that
anytime something digital comes out there's going to be an update shortly that follows.
And after going through like jump through hoops to update my Erica drums sequencer I was
like I don't really feel like dealing with that.
So I was like super excited when the drum sample was released but I held off on buying.
I was like I'm going to give this a month maybe two and because I'm sure there's going
to be a revision.
Let it settle down a little bit.
Let everyone else been test for you.
I don't even think it was out a week and there was already a revision.
I was like all right and then like since then there's been a few more I think at least
for possibly five and I was like okay I'm really glad I didn't buy this yet.
But I definitely plan on getting one.
Like we've discussed I think multiple times now in episodes how it would be nice if somebody
made like a Dr. Rex into module.
Yeah.
And this is like I think as close as anything has ever come to being that.
You know it looks like it was right up that alley kind of hits that target.
So I have to at least try one you know what I mean.
It looks a little menu divy a little little cramped for the functionality that's in there.
You know but.
It's hard to tell because a lot of the videos I've seen have been with the waveform with
action with basically not the setup to get to the craziness that they're doing.
So I'm kind of like hmm I wonder how long that actually took you to get to that.
Like that might have actually kind of been a pain to get to that point.
Right.
It definitely can handle slicing and like you know CV modulations within a loop.
You know what I mean to create interesting like rhythmic slicing you know break core in
a box type of thing.
But if it takes you an hour to set that up right at a time you know what I mean like
I don't know.
Dialing in slice points on that tiny screen with you know a little knob if it doesn't
detect it automatically correctly would be a fucking nightmare.
And it's like I mean once it's sit there and do that you know what I mean.
Even on the ER 301 it's really fucking nice to put in slice points you're set up pretty
well it's still kind of annoying to sit there and go through and do it sometimes.
Like it'll even hit zero points and everything.
I was gonna say there's a jump to zero like the closest zero.
You can actually select it and be like oh go to the nearest zero.
He's really smart about it but it's still sometimes it's like yeah.
It's gonna like hit a slider go up and see the thresholds hit and just like fucking play
those you know like recycle style.
Every video looks super crazy and I'm all and I'm not doing stuff with that sort of like
brain force be it some kind of like.
I know if I get it I might do that again.
I haven't really done anything like that since like early Prometheus burning stuff.
You know what I mean?
Like watching demos of it I was like man that makes me want to like jump back to like
early 2000s just two 10 BPM.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
A little bit of break for there.
Some industrial madness just fucking lay or some gabber kicks on top of it.
It's almost inevitable when you get one.
So like you're gonna dip in you got to test the waters.
I hope the default sound bank just comes with like 200 different fucking amen breaks
already loaded in.
Oh I got on my list is a analog heat really flexible the way you can frequency select
what you're distorting.
The cool thing I like about the analog heat I'm glad I got the mark to because it kind
of shows you how the modulation is affecting the signal whereas the last one didn't and
I think it would be a little difficult to know how the envelope for you'll obviously
hear it but it's nice to be like oh that's how much of the signal it's like biting or
how much it's like carving out.
The cool thing is like every knob is saved in the preset which is awesome because if
you recall it is absolutely the way you had it even up to like the master volume I think
there's nothing that's you're gonna have to be figuring out to get it to that level again.
Stereo, stereo filter which is very nice.
I like that you can process things and filter and stereo.
I don't have like a stereo filter equipment wise normally they're mono modular ones so
it's cool to run a piece of gear in and have it sound kind of normal.
Do you have independent controls over each filter separately?
I mean can you?
No it's like one filter basically and at the bottom you get like the bands that you can
select and you get like resonance and a frequency control and you can point the LFOs to it or
it has two CV inputs too so you can point things to that which was very appealing that
was kind of what sold me on it.
It's like oh two CV ends?
Fuck yeah I'll give this a try.
So I didn't realize until like right after I bought it I was like well the Sherman Filter
Bank Compact exists and it's like the same price and I bet it sounds ridiculous.
It does.
I've heard but I really like the envelope follower on the heat.
The eight different distortions I was having a lot of fun with the classic distortion last
night getting sounds from like I've been trying to get that sound for a long time and I fucking
got it and it was like a fucking playground last night when I was playing it.
The screen was definitely lifting off of it when I got it.
Typical electron I was like what the fuck like it came up again and I like held it down
for a second and then it stayed there and I think I just had to press the glue back down.
Now it doesn't lift it up yet.
We'll see like what the first hot day in July is like but you know.
Nice humid fucking club.
I also got the Mark II because it has the encoders from the Digitech and the new stuff
and I read complaints about like good luck dialing in the exact decimal value on the old
one because it was like old style encoders that were not that good.
It's fucking pricey but I really like it so far.
It's got eight different distortion circuits.
I really like the subtle ones and I really like the some of the extreme ones too.
And you can point the CV to almost any parameter on there which is cool.
That's how I felt about the drive too.
I like the very subtle ones like the first clean one or whatever it is and like the last
one not much in between really caught my ear but I was liking the first and the last.
The drive didn't have the filter right and it was just mono.
It had an sort of a filter.
It was like a three band EQ.
It had low gain you know plus minus high plus minus but then it had like it was like
your notch that you could adjust to like scoop kind of in between the two and make like a
sort of like a band pass.
You know I don't know.
That's more than this has because the one thing I don't like about this is you have
two fixed frequency low and high EQs that you can just boosting like cut the gain.
And I'm like yeah it sounds good but why the fuck didn't you let us pick the frequency.
What are the frequencies are they like snare and kick is it like okay.
That's a good question.
It just feels almost like a mixer low high EQ if you just like a two band on a mixer.
Yeah it sounds good like quality sounds good no complaints there.
So the bottom left you get three controls which is pretty interesting.
You can get a drive control and then you get a wet drive control and then you also get
a wet level control which is really nice so you can adjust the wet drive but you can
also boost the wet or reduce the wet signal.
So it's got a lot of stuff that can let you kind of be like oh I just want to take the
mid highs and distort those and then everything else I'm just going to leave kind of clean.
So that's one of the nicer things about is you get kind of it's almost a little multi
bandy.
It's like they got close to multi band distortion but they didn't want to go the whole way
or something like that.
So obviously it's only one distortion you don't get like four of them but it's pretty
flexible from that standpoint.
At first I thought it was going to be really good for live stuff and I did I used it in
Detroit with the TR8s and it was good.
I just needed to dirty that thing up because I don't really like the plain stuff like that
anymore from the XOX stuff but I find that when I use it at home it takes me like a
good ten minutes and I'll dial it in or something like that.
Oh shit that's the sweet spot.
I don't know if I want to go through that live.
Everyone wait.
Hold on.
Find the sweet spot.
Oh wait that's too.
Hold.
Wait.
Can someone come up with DJ while I figure this out?
Yeah.
The resonance is pretty whistly.
It's not super special but does the trick.
This is a nice change of pace from our normal.
Oh my god.
Electron what are you doing?
Yeah.
Good.
I was skeptical.
This was like 700 bucks but it is eight distortions.
The stereo filter like the envelope follower or the CV ends.
I'm not mad at the end of the day.
I've been trying to get some of these tones for a while.
Shout out to the TV3 too.
That's kind of my favorite acid box at this point.
I think a lot of mileage out of that thing.
It's fucking.
I think it's almost better.
As I get older I turn the resonance down more and realize that it's just a fucking base
monster at the end of the day and you don't need to fucking make it all tweaked out 303
all the time.
The new manager sounds fucking good.
I haven't listened to it yet.
The one video is on Matrix.
It sounds pretty goddamn good.
It's one of those things where I'll just keep that on mind until I wander into pianos
and stuff one day and it'll just be sitting there and it'll be like an impulse buy.
You know what I mean?
Once I fuck with it and I'll be like oh this sounds great.
Walk out the door with it.
I think for our listeners that are not in the Pittsburgh or Bolognaux area, Thanos and
stuff is a local music instrument shop.
It's pretty much.
They're great.
Yeah.
But like all we have.
It is.
Aside from the guitar centers which popped up and I already I think dead.
I think there's only one left.
I mean everything that I got for Prometheus burning was pretty much picked from the graveyard
of their use section.
Every mic stand and keyboard stand.
I actually went into the used section at pianos and stuff last week.
So good there on lunch break sometimes.
I eat at curbside coffee house which is close there sometimes.
The only thing they had down there was pretty sad there was like a alone Volca kick like
in the corner.
It's a weird.
Pedal is sitting there.
Nobody would ever want to.
But I did play that Volca modular because you mentioned that.
Oh yeah I played that.
I got.
I'm not feeling that feeling.
I got the same result.
Really?
I kind of like the sound of it.
Did you play with one physical?
Yeah and I played with some.
Oh yeah.
I got one.
He had it on pre-order.
Brought it over.
I was kind of in three minutes.
Oh yeah.
With the sound of that little thing yeah.
But I couldn't get any.
I felt like you were the strangers.
It was like oh shit you're over there now.
Yeah.
It was really hard to like dial in a little bit.
But yeah it's a pain in the ass program.
I wouldn't want to do it.
But like they didn't have any of the fat cables out.
For vocal blocks though like compared to all the other vocal I think it's a really interesting
addition.
They had the Terraz AS1 there.
And I thought that sounded great actually when I played it.
But it was like poke.
I couldn't like get it to make notes for a second.
That little keyboard sucks ass.
The one on the Volka at least was very responsive and it was like oh this is cool.
I mean I should put that thing on the AS1 and that would be kind of cool.
You got to remember that's a demo unit.
Like I think it's manhandled every day by people slamming on that thing.
Probably trying to play it like an actual keyboard you know what I mean.
Children with their sticky fingers and oh still it's going to be able to take that.
Yeah that's true.
I did enjoy the sound of the AS1.
I've wanted one of those since it was announced and when I played with one a couple weeks ago
up Pianos and stuff I was like yeah I still kind of want this.
It sounds good.
Yeah.
It was a little bigger than I thought.
It was a little like a little beefier.
It's substantial.
I love the format of the SB16.
I think it feels great.
It's good size.
Which speaking of Terraz is the squid.
Oh right.
It was announced.
Squid looks bigger than my SB16.
It's like yeah I think it looks big.
I was like if it was a little smaller I'd love to pair it up with it like for live.
You know what I mean.
A little sequencer it's like the same form factor slap it next to my.
How much bigger is it?
I think it's like a few inches wider.
Like it's unnecessarily big and it doesn't even have a fucking screen.
Yeah there's a lot of like dead space on it.
It's not like it's filled with buttons.
I mean there's a lot of buttons but it's like there's.
And there's some weird shit that doesn't need to be filled in space.
Poetry momentary swing slider which I want to hear it.
I'm very skeptical.
I think we all are like how much you want to introduce micro swing amounts with a significant
part of your interface.
You know.
Yeah it would be nice if you can reconfigure that jog wheel to do other shit.
Yeah.
Because otherwise I feel like that's just a waste of space.
Like and hardware.
You know that's just something else you have to worry about breaking or getting snagged.
It's like is it really worth it?
You know what I mean?
You probably could have done like an AS1 little touch thing with like a latch key.
Like why have a hardware jog wheel?
I hope you can configure that.
Or you guys just didn't realize that is what you've been looking for this whole.
Maybe.
And it just the missing link.
It just opens up a whole new fucking world and you'll be like not only am I glad they
put it on this.
Why doesn't everything else have this?
That's true.
I have zero optimism that is going to be the result.
You do that and it just snaps dancers legs and the dance forward.
You do it.
(upbeat music)
[ Silence ]